#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Use Cases =

==List Vehicles==
Actors: Admin, Manager, Salesperson<br />
A user can view a complete list of sellable vehicles at their dealership.

==Add Vehicle to Inventory==
Actors: Manager<br />
A manager can add a vehicle to inventory at his/her dealership.

==Remove Vehicle from Inventory==
Actors: Manager<br />
A manager can remove a vehicle from inventory at his/her dealership.

==View Individual Vehicle Details==
Actors: Salesperson, Manager<br />
Users can view details (year, make, model, VIN, etc) of a specific vehicle.

'['vehicles anywhere, or just within the employee's dealership?']'

==Edit Vehicle Details==
Actors: Manager
The manager of a dealership can edit the details of a vehicle in his/her dealership.

==Mark Vehicle as Pending Sale==
Actors: Salesperson
Salespeople can mark a vehicle as a Pending Sale, along with the negotiated price, taking it out of sellable inventory temporarily.

[Should these expire if not finalized by a manager?]

==Finalize Vehicle Sale==
Actors: Manager
The manager of a dealership can finalize any Pending Sale at his/her dealership, automatically removing the vehicle from inventory.

==Add Dealership to System==
Actors: Admin
A system administrator can add dealerships to the database.

==Remove Dealership from System==
Actors: Admin
A system administrator can remove dealerships from the database.

[Perhaps keep the dealership in the system, but mark as 'closed,' for historical record?]

==Edit Dealership Details==
Actors: Admin
A system administrator can change the details of a dealership (address, description, website...)

==Add Employee==
Actors: Admin
A system administrator can add employees to the database.

==Remove Employee==
[Rather than removing employees, they should simply have all of their PositionAssignments closed.]

==Initiate Vehicle Trade==
Actors: Manager
The manager of a dealership can initiate a vehicle trade with another dealership by selecting the other participating dealership and the vehicles he/she wishes to trade with that dealership.

==Accept Vehicle Trade==
Actors: Manager
The manager of a dealership with which a trade has been initiated can accept the trade, which automatically transfers inventory between the dealerships.

==Reject Vehicle Trade==
Actors: Manager
The manager of a dealership with which a trade has been initiated can reject the trade.